
[PAGE 1]
Course:  BIOL 443, Section D3 – Principles of Immunology 
  
Course Information 
 
Course:  BIOL 443, Section D3 – Principles of Immunology 
  
Credit Hours: 3 credit hours 
  
Professor:  Dr. Preety Panwar 
  
Phone:   252.335.3830 
Email:  prpanwar@ecsu.edu 
  
Office Location:  STEM 324 
  
Office Hours: 
o In-Person: NOTE:  I will not be physically on campus during this semester. contact 
me via phone or e-mail. 
o Virtual:  I am available via e-mail on a first come, first serve basis at any time. 
Please allow a 24 - 48 hour response time, although most of the time I will respond 
much quicker than that. I am available for consultation M to F from 8:00 AM to 2 
PM. Contact me first via e-mail and if we need we can set up a ZOOM appointment 
for a virtual video chat. 
 
Course Description 
 
General Description:  A survey of the basic concepts/principles of nature on acquired resistance 
of higher animals and humans to infection by infectious agents. 
  
Prerequisites: BIOL 101, 102; 341; CHEM 101, 101L, 102, 102L 301, 301L 
Course Level Student Learning Outcomes: Upon completion of the Principles of Immunology 
course, the students should be able to: 
1. Identify and describe the principal components of the human immune system. 
2. Differentiate between innate and acquired immunity. 
3. Discuss the role of Phagocytes, T cells, B cells, Complement system, MHC, Immune 
receptors and Immune Signaling compounds in the immune response. 
4. Explain the basic immunological concept behind vaccines, allergic reactions, autoimmune 
responses and Cancer. 
5. Apply the concepts learned in the course to the study of the development of Covid-19 
infections, treatment and vaccine development. 
 
 
Course Requirements 
Required Text(s) and Materials: Immunology by Richard A. Goldsby, Thomas J. Kindt, Barbara 
A. Osborne, and Janis Kuby (7th ed.) 2013.  The class will also follow a series of websites and 

[PAGE 2]
PowerPoint and video lectures provided by the professor through the Blackboard course delivery 
system. 
  
Computer Requirements: 
 Access: Students will need their own computer/laptop/tablet or easy continuous access to 
a reliable computer/laptop/tablet. While it is possible to manage the course using a 
smartphone through the Blackboard App, individual students might find that parts of the 
course are harder to visualize or complete on such a device. If you plan on using a 
smartphone as your primary course access device, I recommend that you have access to a 
computer as a backup.  A High Speed Internet connection or a 4G Unlimited Data Plan that 
will allow for video streaming is also required. 
 Hardware: No special hardware is required other than your primary course access device. 
 Software: You will need a web browser and access to Microsoft Office, particularly Word, 
Excel and Power Point. If you use other programs to complete your work, you will need to 
submit them in a PDF or Microsoft Office compatible format. 
 
Course Grading Components 
 
Assignment 
(Examples of Assignments) 
Due 
Date 
Number of 
Points for 
Assignment 
Percent of 
Final Grade 
1. Exams See 
Outline 
400 40 
2. Midterm Exam 100 10 
3. Laboratory Reports 100 10 
4. Wikki – Covid-19 200 20 
5. Participation 100 10 
6. Final Exam 100 10 
Grading Scale The Grading Scale is consistent with University policy and is as follows: 
90-100 = A      80-89 = B     70-79 = C     60-69 = D     Below 60 = F 
 
Course Outline 
 
Principles of Immunology Spring 2026 Course Matrix 
Date 
  
Topic 
Learning 
Outcome 
Alignment 
Assessment 
Note: Unless otherwise 
specified, all assignments 
are due Sunday at 11:59 PM 
Week 1 
Jan 12-18 
Introduction and Class 
Management 
  
Outcomes 1-
3 
  
 Syllabus quiz – 10 extra 
credit points. 
Introduction DB Forum – 
10 extra credit points 
Unit 1 – The Big Picture – 
Overview of the Immune system 
and the major players in the 
immune response. Chapters 1-4 
Unit 1 quiz – 
10  participation points 

[PAGE 3]
Week 2 
and 3 
Jan 19 - 
Feb 2 
Unit 1 continued Exam for Unit 1 – 100 
points 
(25 points from the Essay 
portion of the Exam and 75 
points from a separate 
Multiple Choice exam) 
  
CBC Activity Report – 20 
participation points 
  
Course Feedback Survey – 
10 extra credit points 
Week 4-5 
Feb 3 –23 
  
Unit 2 – Innate immunity – 
Chapters 5-8 
  
Unit 2 quiz – 10 
participation points 
  
Exam for Unit 2 – 100 
points (25 points from the 
Essay portion of the Exam 
and 75 points from a 
separate Multiple Choice 
exam) 
  
Complement Cascade 
Activity Screen Shot – 20 
participation points 
Week 6-7 
Feb 24 - 
Mar 9 
Unit 3 – Adaptive Immunity  – 
Chapters 9-13 
Unit 3 quiz – 10 
participation points 
  
Exam for Unit 3 – 100 
points (25 points from the 
Essay portion of the Exam 
and 75 points from a 
separate Multiple Choice 
exam) 
  
Unit 3 Special Activity – 10 
participation points 
  
  
  
Week 8 
Mar 10 - 
16 
Midterm 
  
Midterm -100 points TBD 
in second week of  March 
around Mar 12 Online Lab 
Reports – 100 points 
Week 9 - 
10 
Unit 4 – Allergies, Autoimmunity 
and Vaccines 
Outcomes 
1and 4 
Unit 4 quiz – 10 
participation points 

[PAGE 4]
Mar 17 - 
30 
  
Exam for Unit 4 – 100 
points (25 points from the 
Essay portion of the Exam 
and 75 points from a 
separate Multiple Choice 
exam) 
  
Unit 4 Special Activity – 10 
Participation Points 
  
Week 11 - 
12 
Mar 31 – 
Apr 6 
Unit 5 – Covid-19 Journal Outcomes 
1and 5 
Journal for Covid-19 
activity – 200 points 
Week 13 - 
14 
Apr 7 - 20 
Unit 5 cont. 
Week 15 - 
16 
Apr 21 - 
May 1 
Final Exam All Outcomes Take Home Final Exam – 
100 points – Due Jul 13 
 
Course Expectations 
 
Student Expectations 
 You will need to use this Blackboard Course Shell to post assignments. If you submit an 
assignment via e-mail without receiving previous permission from me, the assignment will 
not be graded. 
  Participation/attendance policy - Participation will be assessed based on your promptness 
in completing assignments and your adherence to the Due Dates in the course. Attendance 
will be based on your last date of access to the course as recorded by Blackboard.              
 Your participation in Discussion Boards, Journals or Assignments must be original work. I 
am interested in your words and your opinions, not on a write up from the internet. When 
material from another source is used you will reference it properly using the format 
indicated with the assignment. 
 Late assignment policy - This course will cover a lot of material that relays heavily on class 
discussions through Discussion Boards. To create those class discussions, it is necessary to 
keep up with the course deadlines.  I will accept late assignments up until the last day of 
the class, but you will lose 10% of the total point value of the assignment for every week 
you are late. 
 Time commitment -  This is a 3 credit course.  If the course was face to face you would be 
expected to meet 3 hours a week, and you would be expected to study about 2 hours at 
home for each hour you meet in class.  That adds up to 9 hours a week.  For an equivalent 
On Line course, you should expect to spend between 9 and 10 hours a week working on 
the course. 

[PAGE 5]
 Civility standards - Students are expected to maintain a civil environment at all times.  For 
more specific instructions on Netiquette and on line behavior, see the guidelines in the 
Discussion Board Assignments folder. 
 
Professor Expectations 
 Students who are unable to access the course for a valid reason can expect the professor to 
provide reasonable accommodations within the time frame of the course.  
 Absent exigent circumstances, I will respond to emails within 24 to 48 hours.  
 Since most course deadlines are Sunday at the end of the day, I typically grade Mondays 
and Tuesdays. You can expect to have all assignments turned on by the due date, to be 
graded by the next Tuesday before the end of the day. 
 I will provide you with performance feedback and grade explanations when requested via 
e-mail as many times as you need me to do so. 
 
Course Policies 
 
Attendance Policy 
 Attendance will be assessed by the last day of access to the course on blackboard. Students 
are expected to access the course at least once a week. 
 In order to receive a reasonable accommodation when absent for the course, the students 
should communicate with the faculty member within 48 hours of the absence, and be 
willing to provide evidence of the excuse upon request. Students can be afforded longer 
notification time with a doctor’s note. 
 For long-term absences from a class (more than a week), the student needs to address the 
concerns regarding accessing the course with the Office of Students with Disabilities or 
with the Office of Academic Affairs, depending on the reason for the absence. 
Late/Missed Assignments  
 This course will cover a lot of material that relays heavily on class discussions through 
Discussion Boards. To create those class discussions, it is necessary to keep up with the 
course deadlines.  I will accept late assignments up until the last day of the class, but you 
will lose 25% of the total point value of the assignment for every week you are late. 
 Netiquette Guidelines 
 Write in digestible chunks. Lengthy paragraphs are difficult for readers to digest. Keep 
your paragraphs short and your writing concise.  
 NO YELLING. When you write in uppercase letters in online communication, it is usually 
interpreted as yelling. 
 Add some emotion :-). Sometimes it helps communicate the tone of your message when 
you add an emoticon or emoji. However, only do so as necessary, for it can end up being 
annoying to readers if you have too many, which is probably the opposite of your intention. 
 Use humor carefully. Sarcasm, in particular, does not translate well in an online 
environment. It’s best to avoid the potential pitfalls of misunderstood messages. 
 Assume the best intentions. In an online environment, it is easy to misread someone’s 
tone or intended message. Give your peers and instructor the benefit of the doubt, and ask 
them to clarify their meaning.  
 We are not the same. Respect differences, and don’t make assumptions. 
 Language matters. Choose your words carefully; avoid using slang, and be kind.  